Final addition to the manuscript (#1108)
greenelab/covid19-review: content/10.diagnostics.md

A similar approach can be seen in the US as well, where multiple state-run testing facilities are closing, despite some groups advocating to keep them open [@url:https://www.9news.com/article/news/health/coronavirus/local-groups-continue-push-for-covid-testing-and-vaccinations/73-bbcd8384-d96a-425e-aaeb-16ac9f36e581; @url:https://www.sltrib.com/news/2022/02/18/utah-will-stop-daily].
These ongoing changes in testing policy are likely to have a direct effect on how the pandemic is managed moving forward, because SARS-CoV-2 diagnostic tests can be used effectively to slow the spread of the disease only when 1) they are used to share testing results in a timely manner so that they can reasonably be used to approximate the number of infections in the population, and 2) those tests are easily accessible by the general public.

Children are one segment of the population where the importance of the two aforementioned conditions can be exemplified. 
This group is particularly vulnerable as there are ongoing challenges with testing in schools, increased COVID-19 mortality rates, and COVID-19-associated orphanhood. 

> In this regard, although there is evidence of the efficacy of routine diagnostic testing to reduce the probability of having infectious students[@doi:10.3389/fpubh.2021.751451;@doi:10.2807/1560-7917.ES.2021.26.34.2100184], as of March of 2022 there is an increasingly number of schools that have stopped or plan to stop contact tracing efforts [@url:https://www.opb.org/article/2022/03/02/oregon-schools-guidance-mask-mandate-end/;@url:https://www.wptv.com/news/education/palm-beach-county-public-schools-to-stop-covid-19-contact-tracing], in line with an announcement made by the CDC where it no longer recommended contact tracing as a strategy to contain the virus [@url:https://www.nytimes.com/live/2022/03/02/world/covid-19-tests-cases-vaccine].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this regard, although there is evidence of the efficacy of routine diagnostic testing to reduce the probability of having infectious students [@doi:10.3389/fpubh.2021.751451; @doi:10.2807/1560-7917.ES.2021.26.34.2100184], as of March of 2022 there is an increasingly number of schools that have stopped or plan to stop contact tracing efforts [@url:https://www.opb.org/article/2022/03/02/oregon-schools-guidance-mask-mandate-end/; @url:https://www.wptv.com/news/education/palm-beach-county-public-schools-to-stop-covid-19-contact-tracing], in line with an announcement made by the CDC where it no longer recommended contact tracing as a strategy to contain the virus [@url:https://www.nytimes.com/live/2022/03/02/world/covid-19-tests-cases-vaccine].
```
Whitespace

> Considering that an estimated 197 children have died in the US from COVID-19 during the first three months of 2022 [@url:https://www.aap.org/en/pages/2019-novel-coronavirus-covid-19-infections/children-and-covid-19-state-level-data-report/] (compared to 735 deaths in the preceding 20 months of the pandemic [@url: https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/mar/11/us-child-covid-deaths-omicron-surge]), and that millions of children have been orphaned as a consequence of parent or caregiver death due to COVID-19 [@doi: 10.1016/S2352-4642(22)00005-0], it is likely that these negative outcomes are exacerbated in the upcoming months as a direct result of eliminating contact tracing in schools.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An estimated 197 children have died in the US from COVID-19 during the first three months of 2022 [@url:https://www.aap.org/en/pages/2019-novel-coronavirus-covid-19-infections/children-and-covid-19-state-level-data-report/], compared to 735 deaths in the preceding 20 months of the pandemic [@url: https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/mar/11/us-child-covid-deaths-omicron-surge], and millions of children have been orphaned as a consequence of parent or caregiver death due to COVID-19 [@{doi:10.1016/S2352-4642(22)00005-0}].
It is likely that these negative outcomes will be exacerbated in the future as a direct result of eliminating contact tracing in schools.
```
Breaking up the long sentence and fixing the DOI

Reviewer 2: Maybe rephrase the last sentence as follows to highlight testing and to generalize the time frame

"It is likely that these negative outcomes will be exacerbated for the remainder of 2022 as a direct result of eliminating or limited testing capacity in schools."

Author: Re-wrote the last sentence

Author: OK, I think I've taken care of all the comments, @RLordan or @agitter, let me know what you think and if you believe these changes are good to close the PR.

Reviewer 2: > OK, I think I've taken care of all the comments, @RLordan or @agitter, let me know what you think and if you believe these changes are good to close the PR.

All good with me @aimundo, thanks very much. Reads very well.

> This particular example in the case of children illustrates that the multiple SARS-CoV-2 diagnostic tools we have presented in this paper lack any real benefit if they are difficult to obtain, or if their limited use results in biased data that would lead to ill-informed public health strategies. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The SARS-CoV-2 diagnostic tools presented in this paper lack any real benefit if they are difficult to obtain, or if their limited use results in biased data that would lead to ill-informed public health strategies. 
```
I suggest making this closing general again and leaving the children-specific discussion to the preceding paragraph.

Reviewer 2: I would agree.

> Because the pandemic is still ongoing, the fact that active testing and tracing efforts seem not to be a priority anymore for the public health apparatus in different countries is a worrying trend that if continued, could result in increased morbidity and mortality and an overall failure to end the pandemic. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The pandemic is still an ongoing public health threat and it is worrying that active testing and tracing efforts are a low priority for public health authorities in many countries. 
If this trend continues, the lack of testing could result in increased morbidity and mortality and an overall failure to manage the pandemic. 
```

A similar approach can be seen in the US as well, where multiple state-run testing facilities are closing, despite some groups advocating to keep them open [@url:https://www.9news.com/article/news/health/coronavirus/local-groups-continue-push-for-covid-testing-and-vaccinations/73-bbcd8384-d96a-425e-aaeb-16ac9f36e581; @url:https://www.sltrib.com/news/2022/02/18/utah-will-stop-daily].
These ongoing changes in testing policy are likely to have a direct effect on how the pandemic is managed moving forward, because SARS-CoV-2 diagnostic tests can be used effectively to slow the spread of the disease only when 1) they are used to share testing results in a timely manner so that they can reasonably be used to approximate the number of infections in the population, and 2) those tests are easily accessible by the general public.

Children are one segment of the population where the importance of the two aforementioned conditions can be exemplified. 
This group is particularly vulnerable as there are ongoing challenges with testing in schools, increased COVID-19 mortality rates, and COVID-19-associated orphanhood. 

> In this regard, although there is evidence of the efficacy of routine diagnostic testing to reduce the probability of having infectious students [@doi:10.3389/fpubh.2021.751451; @doi:10.2807/1560-7917.ES.2021.26.34.2100184], as of March of 2022 there is an increasingly number of schools that have stopped or plan to stop contact tracing efforts [@url:https://www.opb.org/article/2022/03/02/oregon-schools-guidance-mask-mandate-end/; @url:https://www.wptv.com/news/education/palm-beach-county-public-schools-to-stop-covid-19-contact-tracing], in line with an announcement made by the CDC where it no longer recommended contact tracing as a strategy to contain the virus [@url:https://www.nytimes.com/live/2022/03/02/world/covid-19-tests-cases-vaccine].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this regard, although there is evidence of the efficacy of routine diagnostic testing to reduce the probability of having infectious students [@doi:10.3389/fpubh.2021.751451; @doi:10.2807/1560-7917.ES.2021.26.34.2100184], as of March of 2022 there is an increasing number of schools that have stopped or plan to stop contact tracing efforts [@url:https://www.opb.org/article/2022/03/02/oregon-schools-guidance-mask-mandate-end/; @url:https://www.wptv.com/news/education/palm-beach-county-public-schools-to-stop-covid-19-contact-tracing], in line with an announcement made by the CDC where it no longer recommended contact tracing as a strategy to contain the virus [@url:https://www.nytimes.com/live/2022/03/02/world/covid-19-tests-cases-vaccine].
```
One last grammatical change and then this looks good to me.
